Ongoing work on Metadata and Extensions Tutorials (#1011)
usnistgov/OSCAL: docs/content/learn/tutorials/general/extension.md

props:
- name: ...
  ns: ...
  value: ...
  class: ...
{{< /highlight >}} 

A `props` list in YAML contains individual OSCAL property items.

Each property item can have the following keys:

- `name` (Required) - The required *name* of the OSCAL property that must be a [token](/reference/datatypes/#token) data type.
- `ns` (Optional) - The optional *namespace* of the OSCAL property that must be a [universal resource identifier (URI)](/reference/datatypes/#uri) formatted according to [RFC 3986](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3986).
- `value` (Required) - The required *value* of the OSCAL property that must be a [string](/reference/datatypes/#string) value.
- `class` (Optional) - The optional *class* of the OSCAL property  that must be a [string](/reference/datatypes/#string) value, which can be used to further qualify the value that must be a [string](/reference/datatypes/#string) value, which can be used to further qualify the property's value.
{{% /tab %}}
{{% /tabs %}}

### Concepts

Now that the syntax of a property is more clear, let's discuss how the property's *namespace*, *name*, *value*, and *class* are used to extend OSCAL.

#### Context

> As we mentioned earlier, a property is a *namespaced name* and *value* pair, which appears on many of the key fields within an OSCAL model. The OSCAL field on which the property is declared is considered the property's *context*. A property's context establishes the subject of the property; the thing the property is about.

Reviewer: Punctuation should be a colon not semi-colon

> the subject of the property: the thing the property is about.

Author: ```suggestion
As we mentioned earlier, a property is a *namespaced name* and *value* pair, which appears on many of the key fields within an OSCAL model. The OSCAL field on which the property is declared is considered the property's *context*. A property's context establishes the subject of the property: the thing the property is about.
```

#### Namespace

A property's *namespace* defines the value space of possible names for a property. Each namespace is represented by a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI), which is defined by [RFC 3986](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3986). Namespaces allow the same property name to be used for different purposes or to have different meanings for each namespace it is defined in.

The default namespace for an OSCAL property is `http://csrc.nist.gov/ns/oscal`, which is used as the namespace when no namespace is provided.

> A namespace is managed by a given organization or individual. Using a namespace, different organizations can assign a unique semantic meaning to the use of a property name within their namespace; thus, the different meaning of two properties with the same name can be easily determined by identifying the associated namespaces. This allows different organizations to assign names within their own namespace, without coordinating with other organizations, avoiding naming conflicts. This provides a low effort means to ensure that naming clashes are avoided.

Author: ```suggestion
A namespace is managed by a given organization or individual. Using a namespace, different organizations can assign a unique semantic meaning to the use of a property name within their namespace; thus, the different meaning of two properties with the same name can be easily determined by identifying the associated namespaces. This allows different organizations to assign names within their own namespace, without coordinating with other organizations, avoiding naming conflicts. This provides a low-effort means to ensure that naming clashes are avoided.
```

#### Name

The *name* of a property defines the semantic meaning or topical nature of the value. The topic a name relates to is often associated with the property's *context*.

For example, the property name "marking" might identify some information sensitivity classification scheme for the context data field, while the property name "label" might refer to a textual label for the context data field.

> In OSCAL, many data fields have pre-defined names defined in the OSCAL namespace `http://csrc.nist.gov/ns/oscal`, which is the default value for the namespace when no namespace is provided. These pre-defined property names provided for standardized naming of properties, which can be recognized by multiple consumers to have a consistent meaning. The namespace can be omitted when using an OSCAL define pre-defined property name.

Author: ```suggestion
In OSCAL, many data fields have pre-defined names defined in the OSCAL namespace `http://csrc.nist.gov/ns/oscal`, which is the default value for the namespace when no namespace is provided. These pre-defined property names provided for standardized naming of properties, which can be recognized by multiple consumers to have a consistent meaning. The namespace can be omitted when using a property name pre-defined by OSCAL.
```

For example, the OSCAL SSP model's system characteristics data field has a pre-defined property name `data-center` \[[XML](/reference/latest/system-security-plan/xml-reference/#/system-security-plan/system-characteristics/prop)\] \[[JSON/YAML](/reference/latest/system-security-plan/json-reference/#/system-security-plan/system-characteristics/props)\].

OSCAL content authors need to determine whether to use a pre-defined property name in a given situation or to define their own name in their own namespace. To view existing property names, review the model index \[[XML](/reference/latest/complete/xml-index/#/prop)\] \[[JSON/YAML](/reference/latest/complete/json-index/#/props)\].
  

> New pre-defined names will be added to OSCAL over time on an as-needed basis. To suggest or request the addition of a new pre-defined name in the OSCAL namespace, please [open an issue](https://github.com/usnistgov/OSCAL/issues/new?assignees=&labels=User+Story%2Cenhancement&template=feature_request.yaml) in the OSCAL GitHub repository.

Author: ```suggestion
New pre-defined names will be added to OSCAL over time as needed. To suggest or request the addition of a new pre-defined name in the OSCAL namespace, please [open an issue](https://github.com/usnistgov/OSCAL/issues/new?assignees=&labels=User+Story%2Cenhancement&template=feature_request.yaml) in the OSCAL GitHub repository.
```

#### Value

> A property's *name* defines a data set, while the property's *value* provides the specific member of that set. A data sets for a given name may contain a set of identifier reference values, an enumerated set of values, or allow for open ended values. Part of defining a new namespaced property name is defining the value space of the allowed values.

Author: How about this?
```suggestion
A property's *name* defines a value space, while the property's *value* provides a specific member of that value space. The value space for a given name may contain a set of identifier reference values, an enumerated set of values, or allow for open ended values. Defining the rules for allowed values in a value space is a critical part of defining a new property name within a given namespace.
```

> A property's *name* defines a data set, while the property's *value* provides the specific member of that set. A data sets for a given name may contain a set of identifier reference values, an enumerated set of values, or allow for open ended values. Part of defining a new namespaced property name is defining the value space of the allowed values.

Reviewer: Nicer, yup!

  metadata:
    title: OSCAL Basic Prop Example
    last-modified: '2022-01-01T09:30:00-005'
    version: 20220531
    oscal-version: 1.0.0
    locations:
    - title: ...
      props:
      - name: type
        value: security-operations-center
        class: regional
      - name: glc
        ns: http://example.com/ns/oscal
        value: '11'
        class: state-code
      - name: glc
        ns: http://example.com/ns/oscal
        value: '0010'
        class: city-code
      - name: glc
        ns: http://example.com/ns/oscal
        value: '840'
        class: country-code
  import-profile: ...
  system-characteristics: ...
  system-implementation: ...
{{< /highlight >}}

A new GLC property was created by setting the `prop` object's `name` property to "glc".  The acronym "glc" could be used by other organizations (and have a completely different meaning) so a namespace `ns` was set.  Lastly, GLCs have many data attributes including territory, country codes, state codes, county codes, city codes, and duty station codes, so this example defined a single "glc" `prop` but used `class` to provide context for the property's set `value`.

> Props are prevalent throughout OSCAL models appearing not only in `metadata` and `back-matter` objects, but in the majority of OSCAL data items.  Regardless of which OSCAL property is being extended, the approach is consistent, as described in this section of the tutorial.

Author: No, due to the format naming.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% /tabs %}}

## Links

Links in OSCAL provide a means to reference an arbitrary resource, which allows local or remote content to be referenced. Links are available to use on many of the key fields in the OSCAL models.

A link can:

> 1. Reference (external) information that is not represented in OSCAL format.  This could include references to (cybersecurity) laws and regulations, references to organizational standards and guides, references to software bill of materials (SBOM), and more.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Reference (external) information that is not represented in OSCAL format.  This could include references to (cybersecurity) laws and regulations, references to organizational standards and guides, references to a software bill of materials (SBOM), and more.
```

- `rel` (Optional) - The optional `rel` key is a [token](/reference/datatypes/#token) datatype that can be used to describe the link&#39;s purpose.  Some OSCAL link properties may have pre-defined `rel` values (e.g., reference), but generally, OSCAL content authors can specify any token value for a `rel` key.
- `media-type` (Optional) - The optional `media-type` key can be used to provide the consumer of the OSCAL content a hint about the type of data referenced in the link. Supported media types are as defined by the [Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)](https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/media-types.xhtml).  The `media-type` key accepts [string](/reference/datatypes/#string) values.
- `text` (Optional) - Finally, the optional `text` key can be used for as a textual label for the `link` and accepts [markup-line](/reference/datatypes/#markup-line) datatype. The subsequent sections demonstrate the proper use of links.
{{% /tab %}}
{{% /tabs %}}

> ### Link to internet URL

Author: ```suggestion
### Link to Internet URL
```

{{< tabs XML JSON YAML >}}
{{% tab %}}
{{< highlight xml "linenos=table" >}}
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<system-security-plan uuid="ce16b9af-6853-4abe-9e27-b79d034c0adc">
  <metadata>
    <title>OSCAL SSP Component Link Example</title>
    <last-modified>2022-01-01T09:30:00-005</last-modified>
    <version>20220531</version>
    <oscal-version>1.0.0</oscal-version>
    <link href="https://www.dhs.gov/homeland-security-presidential-directive-12"
          rel="reference">
      <text>HSPD-12</text>
    </link>
    <link href="https://federal-agency.gov/img/official-agency-logo.png"
          rel="logo"
          media-type="image/png" />
  </metadata>
  <import-profile>...</import-profile>
  <system-characteristics>...</system-characteristics>
  <system-implementation>...</system-implementation>
</system-security-plan>
{{< /highlight >}}

> In this case, the `<link>` element on line 8 provides a reference to Homeland Security Policy Directive (HSPD) 12 by specifying the URL in the `@href` attribute.  The OSCAL pre-defined "reference" value is used for the `@rel` attribute, providing some context for the purpose of this specific `<link>`. The `<text>` sub-element provides an associated label for the `<link>` which may be useful when rendering the SSP in other formats (e.g., HTML, PDF).

Author: Adding the following note at the end:

```
As a final note, providing link text is not required. Link text should only be provided as a way to include additional context and can be omitted when a link is self-explanatory.
```
